README.md, before:

# bamcis.io PrestoClient - A Prestodb .NET Client

## Usage

### Basic Example 1

This demonstrates creating a new client config, initializing an IPrestoClient, and executing a simple query. The
returned data can be formatted in CSV or JSON. Additionally, all of the raw data is returned from the server
in case the deserialization process fails in .NET, the user can still access and manipulate the returned data.

```csharp
PrestoClientSessionConfig config = new PrestoClientSessionConfig("hive", "cars")
{
   Host = "localhost",
   Port = 8080
};

IPrestoClient client = new PrestodbClient(config);
ExecuteQueryV1Request request = new ExecuteQueryV1Request("select * from tracklets limit 5;");
ExecuteQueryV1Response queryResponse = await client.ExecuteQueryV1(request);

Console.WriteLine(String.Join("\n", queryResponse.DataToCsv()));
Console.WriteLine("-------------------------------------------------------------------");
Console.WriteLine(String.Join("\n", queryResponse.DataToJson()));
```

## Revision History

### 0.351-beta
Updates to switch to new `Trino` naming standard.

### 0.256-beta
Updates to support .NET 5 and updated `StatementStats.cs` to add the new `WAITING_FOR_PREREQUISITES` header.

### 0.198.5
Converted `Thread.Sleep` to `Task.Delay`.

### 0.198.4-beta
Added `CancellationToken` support to all client methods.

### 0.198.3-beta
Added username/password auth to client.

### 0.198.2
Removed unused classes and allow null/empty values for `Catalog` and `Schema` in `PrestoClientSessionConfig`.

### 0.198.0
Initial release of the client compatible with Presto version 0.198.

### 0.197.0
Initial release of the client compatible with Presto version 0.197.

Commit message:

Add ability to run tests using Docker
- Update PrestoClientDriver.cs test to accept environment variables to control connectivity to real Trino instance running on an external host.

README.md, after:

# bamcis.io PrestoClient - A Prestodb .NET Client

## Usage

### Basic Example 1

This demonstrates creating a new client config, initializing an IPrestoClient, and executing a simple query. The
returned data can be formatted in CSV or JSON. Additionally, all of the raw data is returned from the server
in case the deserialization process fails in .NET, the user can still access and manipulate the returned data.

```csharp
PrestoClientSessionConfig config = new PrestoClientSessionConfig("hive", "cars")
{
   Host = "localhost",
   Port = 8080
};

IPrestoClient client = new PrestodbClient(config);
ExecuteQueryV1Request request = new ExecuteQueryV1Request("select * from tracklets limit 5;");
ExecuteQueryV1Response queryResponse = await client.ExecuteQueryV1(request);

Console.WriteLine(String.Join("\n", queryResponse.DataToCsv()));
Console.WriteLine("-------------------------------------------------------------------");
Console.WriteLine(String.Join("\n", queryResponse.DataToJson()));
```

## Setup

### Development

This project has most of the batteries included to test and verify that the app works

1. Install docker and docker-compose

2. Launch dev environment
    ```bash
    $ make env-up
    ```

3. Run test(s)
    ```bash
    $ make test
    ```

## Revision History

### 0.351-beta
Updates to switch to new `Trino` naming standard.

### 0.256-beta
Updates to support .NET 5 and updated `StatementStats.cs` to add the new `WAITING_FOR_PREREQUISITES` header.

### 0.198.5
Converted `Thread.Sleep` to `Task.Delay`.

### 0.198.4-beta
Added `CancellationToken` support to all client methods.

### 0.198.3-beta
Added username/password auth to client.

### 0.198.2
Removed unused classes and allow null/empty values for `Catalog` and `Schema` in `PrestoClientSessionConfig`.

### 0.198.0
Initial release of the client compatible with Presto version 0.198.

### 0.197.0
Initial release of the client compatible with Presto version 0.197.
